Good morning everyone

First let me introduce myself
My name is Nishshanka Nimesh Mendis
bearing student ID 2012430
Im a Computer Science and Software Engineering student
and my Supervisor is Mr. Vibhavi Attigala



Lets take a look background of my research,
My research problem was Improve Mental Health of Persons with Dementia
by using a mobile application



So What is Dementia?
Let me give you a brief introduction regarding Dementia.
Dementia is a loss of mental functions that is severe enough to affect your 
daily activities or routines and functions 
such as memory, language skills, visual recognition, problem solving, 
trouble with everyday tasks, ability to focus and pay attention



Dementia is recognize as one of the main problem developing in social health
As i mentioned earlier Dementia occurs due to abnorminal brain changes of a person
Due to this Dementia people have many difficulties of concentrating 
and it is hard to get their attention

So there is another question come up in here.
you can ask
How mobile application is useful for this situation?

What if we develop and provide activities such as remembering things to help them to
recover their memory up to some extend
and add features which can take their attention playing sounds or music.
As a system it has to be unique and find insufficient functionalities in the existing
systems and try to bring a better solution



Lets discuss what are the solutions came up with my system
My aim was to Develop a mobile application to improve 
mental health and quality of life a person with Dementia.
following are the objectives of my developed system



It is important conduct a literature review before developing the system
following are some of the successful implementation existing in the playstore

Cognicare 
Cognicare provide users to share their personal experience, their knowledge, 
and their good practices with each other in this application additionally application
provides user to track down the dementia patient's hygine

A Walk Through Dementia
application brings out Virtual Reality experience to the user. 
Another objective of this project was trying to recreate what persons with 
dementia see and how they feel. Special thing in this application is dementia patient can 
experiencing a walk places where they can remember easily 

Dementia guide expert
This application is a personal guide mobile application targeted for the family, friends 
and care takers looking after people with Dementia

Dementia Stages ability model
Teepa Snow created this GEMS model based on Allen Cognitive scale, 
recognize the shifts in skills and abilities in any given moment.

All these applications were designed in a unique way to all the users

But in my application I used AI technology. My application is unique since other application 
doesn't use any AI technology with mechine learning or deep learning techniques



Then we discuss about the methodology used in this research
Agile methodology was used through out the research duration
in agile methodology
Distinctive functionalities of the application was divided and implemented separately
Starting from planning (Read the cicles)

According to the agile methodology
we need to have requirements (Read the slide)



When we talk about the outcome of the research as the researcher I have completed 
all the objectives as i mentioned in previous slides



Thank you. Please ask any questions regarding the presentation and thesis report



I would like to take this chance to thank Mr. Vibhavi Attigala and 
Dr. Gayana Fernando guiding me throughout this research. Thank you board of evaluators
Have a nice day 





